cloud: support data service (#12711)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md

---
title: TiDB Cloud Data Service (Beta) Overview
summary: Learn about Data Service in TiDB Cloud and its scenarios.
---

# TiDB Cloud Data Service (Beta) Overview

TiDB Cloud provides a Data Service (beta) feature that enables you to access data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. This feature uses a serverless architecture that handles computing resources and elastic scaling, so you can focus on the query logic in endpoints without worrying about infrastructure or maintenance costs.

An endpoint in Data Service is a web API that you can customize to execute SQL statements. You can specify parameters for the SQL statements, such as the value used in the `WHERE` clause. When a client calls an endpoint and provides values for the parameters in a request URL, the endpoint executes the SQL statement with the provided parameters and returns the results as part of the HTTP response.

> To manage endpoints for a specific application more efficiently, you can use Data Apps. By creating a Data App, you can group your endpoints and configure authorization settings using API keys to restrict access to endpoints. This way, you can ensure that only authorized users can access and manipulate your data, making your application more secure.

Reviewer: Do you want to add "Data App" and "endpoint" in Glossary?

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we need to describe what Data Apps are?

> To manage endpoints for a specific application more efficiently, you can use Data Apps. By creating a Data App, you can group your endpoints and configure authorization settings using API keys to restrict access to endpoints. In this way, you can ensure that only authorized users can access and manipulate your data, making your application more secure.

Author: ```suggestion
A Data App in Data Service is a group of endpoints that you can use to access data for a specific application. By creating a Data App, you can group your endpoints and configure authorization settings using API keys to restrict access to endpoints. In this way, you can ensure that only authorized users can access and manipulate your data, making your application more secure.
```

> **Note:**
>
> Data Service is only available for [Serverless Tier](/tidb-cloud/serverless-cluster.md) clusters.

## Scenarios

> Data Service allows you to seamlessly integrate with any application or service that is compatible with HTTPS. The following are some typical usage scenarios:

Reviewer 2: integrate what with any application or service?

> Data Service allows you to seamlessly integrate with any application or service that is compatible with HTTPS. The following are some typical usage scenarios:

Author: ```suggestion
Data Service allows you to seamlessly integrate TiDB Cloud with any application or service that is compatible with HTTPS. The following are some typical usage scenarios:
```

- Access the database of your TiDB cluster directly from a mobile or web application.
- Use serverless edge functions to call endpoints and avoid scalability issues caused by database connection pooling.

> - Integrate with visual production by using Data Service as a data source. This avoids exposing your database connection username and password, making your API more secure and easier to use.

Reviewer 2: integrate what with visual production?

> - Connect to your database from an environment that is not currently supported by a MySQL driver. This provides more flexibility and options for you to access data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Connect to your database from an environment that is not supported by a MySQL driver. This provides more flexibility and options for you to access data.
```

## What's next

- [Get Started with Data Service](/tidb-cloud/data-service-get-started.md)

> - [Manage Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md)
> - [Manage Endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Manage a Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md)
- [Manage an Endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md)
```
